well as Israel continues with some of
the fiercest fighting in months in
Northern Gaza Israeli tanks have reached
some residential areas of Rafa in the
South hundreds of thousands of civilians
have fled the city ahead of a threatened
ground offensive Israel's allies have
repeatedly warned against a major
assault on Rafa but Israeli military
forces have stepped up their activity
they say they are targeting several
Hamas battalions still hold up
there Israeli Apache helicopters on
route to
Gaza smoke Rises overhead as some of the
most intense fighting and weeks rages
between Hamas militants and the Israeli
Defense
Forces the IDF says it currently has
three divisions deployed across the Gaza
Strip in the south of Gaza forces from
the 162nd Division continue operations
against terrorist targets and amas
hotpots in the Rafa area
since the beginning of the operation our
forces have eliminated about 100
terrorists as the intensity of fighting
increases the death toll has skyrocketed
as well according to Hamas Le Health
officials in Gaza Tuesday was one of the
deadliest days in weeks they say more
than 35,000 Palestinians have been
killed since the beginning of the war
Israel's offensive in and around Rafa
has forced hundreds of thousands of
Palestinians to flee and continues to
draw St criticism from the International
Community the Secretary General is
appalled by the escalation of military
activity in and around Rafa by the
Israeli Defense
Forces these developments are further
impeding humanitarian access and
worsening an already dire situation at
the same time Hamas militants continue
to fire Rockets into Israel the group
which has been declared a terrorist
organization by the US and EU has
published propaganda videos of
insurgents attacking Israeli forces from
hidden positions and escaping back into
tunnels as the fighting continues the
key border crossing in Rafa remains shot
preventing vital Aid deliveries entering
Gaza as it relates to Aid that has been
flowing this week we've seen 50 trucks
enter uh Gaza on May 12th uh this is uh
not nearly enough more needs to be done
and it's another example of why uh the
Rafa border crossing needs to be open so
we can see further sustained uh
humanitarian Aid flow into Gaza
according to the United Nations over 1
million Palestinians face catastrophic
levels of hunger and are on the brink of
starvation let's get more of the story
now from our correspondent Tanya Kramer
she joins us from Jerusalem Tanya what's
the latest on Israel's military
operations in in Gaza how have its for
how far have its forces Advanced into
Rafa well what we're hearing from
eyewitnesses then Rafa from residents uh
in the area saying they're seeing tanks
going deeper into the Eastern
neighborhoods towards the center of
rafar and there's heavy air bombardment
uh as well and intense fighting now the
Army has said last night that they are
actually um targeting our new Northern
Central and Southern Gaza simultaneously
from the air Land and Sea so that gives
you a description how intense the
fighting is and there's also Hamas
putting out that they are fighting
especially in the north and we've also
seen more rocket Fire coming out uh from
Gaza in recent days now the military had
ordered people in the south from the
Eastern neighborhoods of rafar in the
past uh week or so to leave the area we
understand that over 450 50,000 but of
course this number is rather fluid and
it's an estimate by un agencies are on
the Move uh but we are also hearing uh
from uh people in the north they also
have been asked in other neighborhoods
now to evacuate they're also on the move
but some say they're trapped because
heavy fighting is going on and of course
the situation there is very critical uh
many of them don't have transport it's
very difficult to move when bombardment
is going on and of course all of this is
happening today uh Palestinians are
commemorating uh nakba day it's a
national um commemoration of the loss of
their Homeland and the um displacement
they experienced over 75 years ago
during the Arab Israeli War in 1948
that's very much in the collective
memory and of course many are reminded
when they see uh those pictures of
displacement today in
Gaza now the UN and the US Tanya are
pressuring Israel to reopen the Rafa
border Crossing for Aid deliveries by
all accounts the humanitarian situation
in Gaza is catastrophic what are the
Israel is saying about
this well we we heard or saw basically a
very public spad uh developing uh last
night when the Israeli foreign minister
Israel Cutz posted a statement saying uh
that uh uh Egypt must must be persuaded
to reopen uh the rafar Border Crossing
to allow humanitarian Aid in also saying
the key to prevent a humanitarian crisis
now in the hands of Egypt and that
prompted a very angry response by the
Egyptian foreign minister Sam shukri
saying that it is actually uh Israel
that uh captured uh the Palestinian side
of the crossing ever since it has been
uh closed and that it's that and its
military operations around that Crossing
in southern rafar uh that is preventing
uh any Aid from coming in that's another
signal of the you know chill in the
relations of these two countries in
recent days since uh the Israeli
military uh took over the Palestinian
side of the crossing last Tuesday now
what does it mean uh for eight
organizations now the Rafa Crossing
remains closed this was the crossing
where mainly Personnel go go got in like
humanitarian uh humanitarian workers but
also Palestinians some of them are going
out also patients also in a limited
number but of course also the aid uh
that comes in Via trucks and that has
not been happening we understand K
Shalom Israel had said it open it but
eight agencies are saying they cannot
reach it it's uh the AIS because heavy
fighting is there it's un safe there
some Aid came in uh through the arys
crossing that is in the north of the
Gaza Strip but as we heard this is by
way not enough and of course that is
very difficult now with um more injured
people and medical staff they saying you
know they don't get the supplies to
treat them Tanya thank you very much
that was our correspondent Tanya Kramer
in Jerusalem